>> Brian Holt: Let's talk just a tiny
tiny moment about the API server for
the rest of this project, so
let's just open it in GitHub,
so in the project that I
had you clone earlier.
There is an API directory, I wrote a
little API for the rest of your project so
that we can do some get requests and
post requests and all that kind of stuff.
It's just a little Fastify Node.js App,
I'm not even gonna purport that it's
any good, but it does work [LAUGH],
I don't need you to edit it at all for
the entire remainder of the course.
You just got to run it,
so let's just look at it,
if we go to our GitHub here,
it's this API directory,
you can see it's a little package.json,
it's got Fastify, and that's about it.
It has a SQLite database, and
I think it's got all of our
static assets in there as well,
so it has the CSS,
all of the pizza images and all of the CSS,
yeah, all that stuff I didn't
want you to have to deal with.
So, and
then you can see here in the server.js,
it's just a Fastify project, and
doesn't really do any much more than this,
but not stuff that you have
to worry about at all.
Okay, so
in whatever terminal that you're in,
navigate to your API directory,
so you can see I'm in Complete
Intro to React V9 project /api,
two things, npm install.
>> Brian Holt: Again, vulnerabilities
doesn't matter, it's okay, and
then npm,
let's do run dev cuz that'll be just fine.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
you should see something like this.
>> Brian Holt: So if you go to localhost,
3000 just gonna give you some sort of
404 error, or something like this.
>> Brian Holt: I think it's API/pizzas,
yeah,
if you go to API/pizzas on port 3000,
you should get 31 pizzas,
I think is how many I had in there,
or 32 actually, so
what we wanna do is we wanna
use Vite as the proxy.
And again, this doesn't you don't really
need to understand this too in depth but
essentially we wanna run our front end and
our back end on the same port, right.
So we want everything running
through port 5173 so that we don't
have to worry about CORS what that is bless you,
if you do know what it is
you've been where I am, right?
So we're gonna run everything through
Vite, luckily, Vite makes this very easy
to accomplish, so
I want you to open your vite.config.js and
we're just gonna add
one little thing here.
We're gonna add server, and
we're gonna put a comma there and
we're gonna add a proxy,
>> Brian Holt: And so you add
basically things that you wanna be proxied
through this, and so for /api.
>> Brian Holt: You want to
run that through target.
>> Brian Holt: http://localhost.
>> Brian Holt: 3,000, if you have not
stopped your server from earlier in
the course, please do that now or else
this will interfere with this, by the way.
>> Brian Holt: And then you wanna
add a change origin as well 3,000,
change, origin to be true and
we're gonna do that as well for
public almost actually literally
the exact same thing for public.
>> Brian Holt: That's it, so I added this.
>> Brian Holt: This is going to
proxy all of the requests from
localhost:5173 on /api and
/public to localhost:3000,
so just to prove my point here,
I'm running my Vite server here,
I'm gonna open this in my local host.
And if I do /API/pizzas like
we were just looking at,
notice it still goes to that same API,
so notice that this and this,
despite the fact that they're on
different ports, same thing, right.
>> Brian Holt: That's all that does for
you, it makes local dev much easier,
you used to have to do some black
magic and some seances to get
this to work correctly, now,
Vite makes it very easy, yeah.
Would that work for
any local host number, then,
it's just specifically looking for
anything API.
Yep, so
it's only processing things after the API,
and it doesn't even have to be local host,
right,
you can proxy it to like your
database in the the cloud, right?
Because you're just saying what the target
is, the target can be anything, right?
We're just doing it now in local host,
but this could be your lambdas on AWS, or
something like that.
>> Brian Holt: It's a pretty cool feature,
I think it's,
even if this doesn't make total sense, as
long as this is working, you don't have to
think about it anymore, which is
probably half the benefit as well.